DOC-2051: Tiny 6.5 community docs release (#2763)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/changelog.adoc

NOTE: This is the {productname} Community version changelog. For information about the latest {cloudname} or {enterpriseversion} Release, see: xref:release-notes.adoc[{productname} Release Notes].

== 6.5 - 2023-06-01

=== Added
* New `table_merge_content_on_paste` option which disables the merging behaviour when pasting a table inside an existing table.
* New optional `defaultExpandedIds` and `onToggleExpand` options to the `tree` component config.
* New optional `defaultSelectedId` option to the `tree` component config.

> * New `help_accessibility` option which displays the keyboard shortcut to access the help functionality in the statusbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This has been moved to `6.6` @brian-forte

Author: To quote my commit message:

> Removed an entry from Improved section of 6.5-specific changes:
> 
> * New `help_accessibility` option which displays the keyboard shortcut to access the help functionality in the statusbar.
> 
> This change has been moved to the 6.6 release.

> * New `accordion` plugin with the `InsertAccordion` command.
> * New `accordion` and `accordion-toggle` icons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove these as the new component has not been release. @brian-forte

Author: The according plugin has made it into 6.5 Community.

* New `details_initial_state` and `details_serialized_state` options.
* New `init_content_sync` option that initializes the editor iframe using `document.write` instead of `srcdoc`.
* New `newdocument_content` option that changes the content that will be set when using the `New document` button.
* New `editable_root` option that can be set to `false` to prevent editing of the editors root element.
* New `editor.setEditableRoot` API that sets the editable state of the editor root element.
* New `editor.hasEditableRoot` API that returns `true` or `false` depending on the editable state of the editor root element.
* New `EditableRootStateChange` event that gets dispatched when the state of the editable root is changed.

=== Improved
* Screen readers are now able to announce the highlighted menu item of link comboboxes.
* Now `icon` field for dialog footer `togglebutton`s is not mandatory.
* Toolbar buttons and menu items were not disabled when they couldn't be used on noneditable content.

> * Updated toolbar "More" button tooltip text from "More..." to "Reveal or hide additional toolbar items".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This has been moved to `6.6` @brian-forte

Author: The suggested change and the original are identical. Consequently, I’m resolving this one.

* For word count purposes these characters are now considered punctuation marks: *$*, *~*, *+*, *|*, *№*, and *`*. They no longer increase a document’s word count.
* Updated the `codesample` plugin dialog and the `template` plugin dialog to use the `listbox` component to match other dialogs.
* If the selection contains more than one table cell, Quickbar toolbars are now positioned in the middle of the selection horizontally.

> * The `dataTransfer` property of drag-and-drop events for elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute is now exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Exposed `dataTransfer` property of drag and drop events for elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute.
```

Reviewer: Update based on incoming change from https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2750#discussion_r1211059877 @mkzhx

* Exposed `dataTransfer` property of drag and drop events for elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute.

=== Changed
* The `caption`, `address` and `dt` elements were allowed to have non-inline children elements when the editor schema was set to `html4`.
* SVG icons for back and foreground colors now uses class instead of id to identify SVG elements that should change color.
* The `a` elements were allowed to have non-inline child elements when the editor schema was set to `html4`.

=== Fixed

> * Right clicking on a merge tag would result in different highlighting across browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Right clicking on a merge tag instance presented different highlighting depending on the host browser.
```

Reviewer: Updated to reflect the incoming changes from the approved PR

Author: To quote my commit message:
> Incorporated copy-edit provided by @kemister85 in the currently open PR.

* Direction was not visually changing when using the Directionality plugin on an element which has the `direction` CSS property set.
* Whitespace between transparent elements would incorrectly be converted into empty paragraphs.
* Popups were not constrained within the scrollable container when in a shadow root.
* Pressing arrow keys inside RTL elements would move the caret in an incorrect direction when moving over elements with the `contenteditable` attribute set to `false`.
* Inserting table consecutively without focus in the editor would result in the table being inserted at the wrong position.
* Pasting content into the editor would not fire `beforeinput` and `input` events.
* In some cases, the exiting a `blockquote` element could fail when the cursor was positioned at the end of the `blockquote`.
* Templates containing an `<html>` tag were not parsed before being rendered for preview.
* Typing after deleting formatted content could remove a space at the start of the typing.
* Invalid markup in Notification and Dialog close buttons.
* In dialogs, an incorrect `aria-describedby` attribute caused the body of the dialog to be announced when using a screen reader.

> * The sticky toolbar would not be rendered correctly when transitioning from the custom editor view to the main view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Text within anchor tags, <a>, presented with the Times New Roman font-family, ignoring the font family used in the original document.
* The sticky toolbar would not be rendered correctly when transitioning from the custom editor view to the main view.
```

Reviewer: Missing changelog entry from TINY-9812

Author: This is a change to the PowerPaste Premium plugin and is set to be recorded as such in the PowerPaste changelog, as per the now-merged [PR176](https://github.com/tinymce/powerpaste2/pull/176/files).

* Redial would, in some situations, cause select elements not to have an initial value selected when they should have.
* The Table toolbar was visible even if the table was within a host element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute set.
* Quickbar toolbars were incorrectly shown for elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute set in a root with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute set.
* When Chrome was the host browser, adding a newline when the insertion point was placed after a table could, in some specific situations, not generate the expected newline.
* Show the calculated height and width of Media Embed elements in the `media` plugin dialog.
* Removing an image that failed to upload from an empty paragraph left the paragraph without a padding `<br>` tag.
* Allow a Media Embed element to be correctly resized when using the `media` plugin dialog by converting the Media Embed element to a standalone iframe.
* In some circumstances, an inline alert in the _Search and Replace_ dialog persisted when it was not necessary.
* Context toolbars displayed the incorrect status for the `advlist` plugin buttons.

> * In Safari running on iOS, Korean characters merged onto the previous line upon typing after inserting a newline by pressing Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On iOS Safari, Korean characters will no longer merge onto the previous line after inserting a newline by pressing Enter.
```

Reviewer: Incoming change from https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2748#discussion_r1211041664 @mkzhx

Reviewer 2: This won't be necessary as it was adapted from the latest version of my changelog entry already.

Author: Edits made upstream.

* Directionality commands could set the `dir` attribute on elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute set when these elements were within a root with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute set.
* The content of the dialog body could not be scrolled.
* Some toolbar items, when in a not-enabled state, did not render the `not-allowed` mouse pointer.
* Formats were incorrectly applied to the closest editable element if the selection was in a `contenteditable="false"` context.
* Formats were incorrectly removed from the closest editable element if the selection was in a `contenteditable="false"` context.
* Formatter API, `canApply`, was not returning `false` when the selection was in a `contenteditable="false"` context.
* When dragging image elements and dropping the image in the editor the `dragend` event would sometimes not fire when Firefox was the host browser.
* It was possible to remove links in noneditable contents with the `unlink` editor command.
* Direction was not visually changing when using the Directionality plugin on an element which had the `direction` CSS property set.
* Whitespace between transparent elements was incorrectly converted into empty paragraphs.

> * Popups were not constrained within the scrollable container when in a shadow root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Context menus and menu items were not constrained within the scrollable container if the parent is a Shadow Host
```

Reviewer: @brian-forte Incoming changes from https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2771/files 
@shanmen-tiny  FYI

Author: Edits made upstream.

NOTE: This is the {productname} Community version changelog. For information about the latest {cloudname} or {enterpriseversion} Release, see: xref:release-notes.adoc[{productname} Release Notes].

> == 6.5 - 2023-06-05

Reviewer: Reminder to update this to match the release-date.

Author: Done.

> == 6.5 - 2023-06-05

Author: ```suggestion
== 6.5 - 2023-06-06
```
